Etcd prefix-read candidate: source scope and image integration
Reviewed on 2026-10-09. Source candidate only; no image or deployment change.

Source provenance

AKernel main: 464e9b10c5102558fd5c39cdb362349533612a40
YuanRong upstream master: 5bd7a9a038fb4a966ef960a938629f049934b222
Functionsystem upstream master: 1a2aff6f965e86b36d7a69efa37084deb4d327a6
Functionsystem fix: dfd60257134ad8af876cd8b12d5bc2f5f5b932a5
Candidate branch: codex/etcd-bounded-snapshot-reads
Candidate repository: https://github.com/hky1999/yuanrong-functionsystem

The functionsystem source is a nested submodule. The current account can
publish the candidate to the existing fork, but cannot push to the upstream
mirror. No unpublished YuanRong parent revision is used as a gitlink. This
AKernel branch documents the independently published component candidate;
it does not advance release pins or package the source fix into an image.

For source review in an initialized, dedicated checkout:

  git -C src/yuanrong/functionsystem fetch \
    https://github.com/hky1999/yuanrong-functionsystem.git \
    refs/heads/codex/etcd-bounded-snapshot-reads
  git -C src/yuanrong/functionsystem switch --detach \
    dfd60257134ad8af876cd8b12d5bc2f5f5b932a5

Implementation boundary

The complete read/recovery design crosses C++ workers, Go watcher lifecycle,
shared recovery admission, metadata ownership, consumer state and startup
timers. It needs several changes and integration tests. The first candidate
changes seven production files in functionsystem, four test/build files, and
one component document; the production change stays within the etcd client,
the status-bearing accessor and the worker's initial synchronization guard.

Unlimited default-order prefix Get calls become sequential physical Range
requests. Each page uses a positive KV limit, one fixed range_end, and the
first page's revision. The next inclusive key is last_key + NUL. The existing
Get API still returns one complete collection, so existing full-snapshot
reconciliation code is never called once per partial page. Invalid keys,
source changes, count mismatches, compaction and failures discard the result.

The page size defaults to 256 and accepts 1..4096. The whole-read budget
defaults to 60 seconds and accepts 1..3600. Invalid values explicitly fail.
These are MetaStoreTimeoutOption constructor options, without new CLI or
deployment settings. Explicit limited/count-only/sorted reads keep their
current path. Native Metastore behavior and RPC protocols are unchanged.

Initial GetAndWatch rejects failed reads or rejected snapshot callbacks and
keeps watch start at snapshot_revision + 1. Worker ObserverActor uses the new
SyncWithStatus before marking instance synchronization complete; failure also
fails its completion future. Other callers of the legacy Sync interface still
need a separate failure-propagation audit. Client shutdown completes pending
logical reads with cancellation; it does not explicitly interrupt a Range
already executing on the server.

Validation completed

25 tests passed in a local Ubuntu 22.04 container: 10 cursor tests, 13 mocked
RPC tests including the existing transaction test, and two integration tests
against the official etcd 3.6.8 binary. The integration tests verify concurrent
updates/deletes/inserts between pages and replay of a write between snapshot
completion and watch start. Compile checks also passed for the changed
accessor and observer and the accessor regression test translation unit.

The local harness compiled the actual client and Litebus sources with GCC
11.4, gRPC 1.30.2 and Protobuf 3.12.4. It regenerated the protocol headers and
used test-only header includes for baseline Litebus compatibility. This is
not a full build with the project's pinned dependency set. Four new accessor
tests were compile-checked but not executed. The component document contains
the focused CMake target and optional integration test environment variable:

  src/yuanrong/functionsystem/docs/etcd-prefix-snapshot-reads.txt

Remaining acceptance work

* Per-page limits bound KV count, not value bytes or backend index scan cost.
  The final client collection and event vectors still grow with the prefix.
* One active page is guaranteed per logical read, not per worker or fleet.
  Multiple logical reads and workers can still run concurrently. Shared
  request/byte admission and startup/reconnect staggering remain required.
* Per-owner indexes, smaller metadata, consumer parse/staging correctness,
  acknowledged watch checkpoints, Go lifecycle/subscription fixes and old
  worker recovery coverage remain outside this candidate.
* Test the 60-second default against existing worker watch startup timers
  and process supervision. It is not a complete readiness or recovery policy.
* Run the pinned-dependency build and worker/accessor regressions. Reproduce
  the intended record/value distribution and simultaneous recovery scale;
  measure etcd/client memory, index scan CPU, latency and recovery duration.

Image integration and rollout

builder/node.Dockerfile currently downloads a checksum-pinned
openyuanrong_core 0.10.2rc10 wheel. A source checkout or gitlink update does
not modify those binaries. Build the reviewed source into a compatible core
wheel, validate it with the selected frontend/runtime versions, and publish
the actual artifact before updating any release manifest.

AKernel already supports an isolated wheel override through the paired
OPEN_YR_CORE_WHEEL_URL and OPEN_YR_CORE_WHEEL_SHA256 inputs to make build.
Use the real published wheel URL and its verified checksum. No candidate
artifact has been built or published in this change; no digest is invented.

Worker rollout must preserve running workloads. Validate on new or idle
nodes, with mutually exclusive placement or a reviewed OnDelete strategy.
Do not trigger a complete existing worker-pool rolling update as part of
source validation. The autoscaling and emergency capacity policy is a
separate implementation stream.
